In the last section we saw that making a change to our index file and then rebuilding the image caused
the copy step to be completely invalidated.
We had to rerun copy and every step after it, which means we had to sit through and wait for all of
our dependencies to be installed through run and install.
So in this section, we're going to try to figure out a way to avoid having to completely reinstall
all dependencies just because we made a little change to one of the source code files inside of our
project.
So here's what we'll do.
We're going to take our current build process inside of the Docker file, and we're going to split the
copy copy operation out into two different steps.
The only thing that NPM install right here requires in order to run successfully is the package JSON
file.
That's all we care about.
We don't care about the indexed JS file or any other file inside of here.
So during this initial copy step, I'm going to say the only thing that I want to copy is the package
JSON file.
So I just changed the instruction right here and now says, look, in the current working directory
or look in the directory specified by the build context argument of Docker run or Docker build and find
the package JSON file and then copy that into the current working directory of the container.
We'll then rerun or we will then run NPM install and then after we install all those dependencies,
we'll copy over everything else.
And so we'll do a copy slash dot slash like so.
So think about what is going to happen now as you start to work on your project.
You can make as many changes as you want to the index file and it will not invalidate the cache for
either of these steps right here.
The only time that NPM is NPM install is going to be executed again is if we make a change to that step
or any step above it.
And so in other words, the really only effect is going to have is if we make a change to the package
JSON file, that's really the only situation in which NPM install will normally be executed again during
the build process.
All right, so let's try building this again and then starting the container up and just making sure
that everything still works.
All right, so I'm going to flip back over.
I'll do a Docker build Dash T Steven Grider again, your Docker ID, not mine simple web.
And then we'll specify the build context with that simple dot.
So I'm going to rerun this.
Now we have made a change to the Docker files, so we are going to see some steps rerun and then we
eventually get our successfully tagged and build image.
Now before trying to run it, I want you to run the same command a second time.
So same thing.
No changes whatsoever.
So that time it went extremely quickly because we were able to use the cached version of every single
step.
So now let's imagine that we are doing some normal changes to our application and a normal change would
probably be a change to the index file.
So maybe we decide that we don't want to say bye there anymore.
Maybe instead we want to send back, how are you doing?
So we've now made a change the index file and we definitely need to rebuild our image because we do
not have any support for kind of hot reloading of the indexed file or a project file into the container.
So we have to rebuild the image.
So we'll go back over.
I'm going to rerun the same command for a third time.
And we saw that it executed very quickly because the only change that we made to any step along the
way was step number five.
We copied over the entire contents of that directory.
Docker detected that we made a change to one of those files.
And so it reran that step and every step after it, but we did not have to rerun the NPM install step
and reinstall those modules which would have taken in our application not very long, but in a real
application, it could take several minutes to run.
All right.
So the real lesson to learn here is that, yes, it does make a difference.
The order in which you put all these instructions into your Docker file and wherever possible, it is
kind of nice to segment out the copy operations to make sure that you are only copying the bare minimum
for each successive step.
All right.
So that's pretty much it for this application.
Now, I hope that it was not terribly annoying for me to show you kind of like some of the wrong way
of doing things and then correct them along the way.
I hope that it was kind of nice to see the error messages appear and see the changes that we made.
Of course, we could have put the right Docker file together from the get go, but I don't know.
You probably may have not learned quite as much as seeing the errors occur and then fixing them in as
they occurred.
Now.
I think this application has turned out pretty well, but it's definitely a very, very basic operation.
So let's take a quick break right now.
We're going to come back the next section and we'll start working on a much more advanced Docker project.
So I'll see you in just a minute.